Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?

~ A programming language is a special language that the programmers  use to develop programs, scripts or other sets of instructions for the computer to execute.
  Its basically a language with a set of vocabulary and grammatical rules for instructing the computer or computing devices to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

~ JDK is Java Development Kit. It contains JRE, JAVAC

What is IDE?
~ Integrated Development Environment is an application which allows users to more easily write and debug Java
  programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
~ Eclipse and Itellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
~Writing of the program is done by java programmers.
 Compilation of program is done by javac compiler, javac is the primary java compiler included in java development kit (JDK).
 The JDK takes the  java program as input and generates java bytecode as output.
 Then the JVM executes the bytecode generated by compiler into the operating system.

what is class?
~ Class is the blueprint of the object.
What is object?
~ Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
~ The main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
~ It does not contain the return method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
~ The object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
~.Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
~Interface: In interface we cannot declare a body. All methods in Interface are abstract. We can have multiple
 methods in abstract.
~Abstract class: In abstract class we have to implement the body. Abstract class can have non abstract methods. It
 can also have abstract method which is not implemented.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it?
~ No, you cannot create an object in abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
~ Access specifier are something that gives access to our classes. It's public, private and protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
~ Object Oriented Program.
~Encapsulation-is data hiding
~Inheritance-is a way to acquire properties from one class to another class
~Abstraction-is implementation hiding
~Polymorphism-is an ability to take on many forms. There are two types of Polymorphism (Overloading and
Overriding)

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
~ java.lang package is imported by default, there is no need to explicitly import it.
 Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
~ Java API is a list of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit(JDK)  

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
~ Yes, Java does support multiple inheritance but onlt through interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
~ In overloading we can have the same name but different parameters
  It happens in compile time
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
~When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system.
 The object, called an exception object, contains information about the error.
 Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called
 throwing an exception.
 ~The Exceptions are handled using try and catch method

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
~ Static keyword that are used to share the same variable or method of a given class. 
Static variable:
1)It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class. 

Static Method:
1)A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. 
2)A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class. 
3)Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it. 

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
~ Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
~ Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
It's a method  -Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
It's a block  -Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. Finalize is a method.   

What is a constructor ?
~ Constructor is used to initialize an object. A class can have multiple constructor.
If a class doesn&'t have constructor, it will take default constructor

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
~ Yes, we can have multiple constructors in a class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
~ Default constructors.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
~ "this." is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
~"Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class. 
~super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. 
~super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. 
~super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.   

What is JVM stand for ?
~Java Vertual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
~Yes, JVM is platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
~1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
~Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
~JDK is it which provides the environment to develop and execute(run) the Java program.
JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
~Java vertual machine
What is compile time and run time?
~
What is heap?
~
How java manage it's memory?
~
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
~
What is Singleton class?
~
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
~
when to use transient variable in java?
~
Difference between while and do..while loop?
~
What is Enum?
~
What is Iterator?
~
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
~
Why is String Immutable in Java?
~
What is constructor chaining in Java?
~
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
~
What is JIT stands for?
~
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
~
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
~
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
~
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
~
what is multithreading in java?
~
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
~
What is Framework?
~
What are the testing Framework available in java?
~
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
~
What are the dependencies for this project?
~
what is dependency injection in java?
~
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
~ Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. Private, final
and static methods and variables are used static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods are bonded
during runtime based upon runtime object.









